Abstract => A switching node for transferring packets, 
each including a destination address, in a network includes a 
plurality of input port modules, a plurality of output port 
modules and a switching fabric, including a packet meta-data 
processor and a packet switch. Each input port module is 
connected to a communication link for receiving packets 
thereover, and each output port module is connected to a 
communication link for transmitting packets thereover. Each 
input port module, upon receiving a packet, buffers the packet 
and generates a meta-data packet therefore identifying the 
output port module that is to transmit the packet and packet 
identifier information, and provides it to the packet meta-data 
processor. The packet meta-data processor receives the meta-
data packets generated by all of the input port modules and 
operational status information from all of the output port 
modules and for each output port module, processes the meta-
data packets received from all of the input port modules in 
connection with the operational status information to 
determine whether the packet should be passed or dropped. If 
the packet meta-data processor determines that a packet 
associated with a meta-data packet is to be dropped, it will 
notify the input port module in which the packet is buffered, 
which, in turn, will discard the packet. On the other hand if 
the packet meta-data processor determines that the packet 
associated with the meta-data packet is not to be dropped, it 
 
Figure: 1. 
will enqueue the meta-data packet for the associated output 
port module. Each output port module retrieves meta-data 
packets from its respective meta-data packet queue 
maintained therefor by the packet meta-data processor. For 
each meta-data packet retrieved by an ouput port module, the 
output port module will request that the input port module 
identified in the meta-data packet transfer the packet 
identified in the input port module thereto through the packet 
switch. When the output port module receives the packet, it 
will transmit it over the communication link connected 
thereto. 
  

