Application number => 817/MUM/2003
Date of filing of application number => 18/08/2003
Title => A MECHANICAL DRAFTING DEVICE, NAMED COMPACT BOARD. 
       

International Classification => (71) 
Abstract => This invention relates to a mechanical device which is a drafting apparatus to be used in drafting practice in engineering field, by students as well 
as professionals in the field.  It is named “Compact Board” specifically because it can be folded easily in a compact pack and it get’s accommodated in a small 
rexin bag, which one can hang on shoulder comfortably, and can easily carry any where conveniently. 
Since so many years a wooden board or plate is being used for the purpose of fixing drawing sheets on which technical drawings are drawn.  Being 
wooden it always used to get deformed in humid atmosphere in specially rainy season.  It becomes of no use the moment it gets deformed.  Second important 
drawback was it’s single piece size.  Because of the size to carry it some place was a great inconvenient job.  Students, one riding on a bike and another holding 
two drawing boards sitting behind, rushing towards distant college, through croudy city traffic is a usual picture.  It’s an invitation to serious road Accidents, when 
board slips, falls or topples from hands of the one sitting behind holding the board. 
Apart from this it’s important advantage is it’s very important role in controlling environment by directly saving huge quantity of wood, ( as it is made 
from plastic ) which otherwise is getting consumed in large quantity every year.  Trees and hence forests can be saved from distruction at large. 
Second step in favour of environment is the consumption of plastic as a raw material for this product, which otherwise is creating big problem for 
invironment as it is not possible to distroy it completely after use.  Here that problem creating plastic can be re-used again in such essential product to the students 
and people in engineering field all over Nation. 
The invention is definitely going to solve all these problems offering great covinience and comfort to the user and this invention is brought ahead after 
ample thinking on all above problems from all practical sides, angles and aspects because I am a person who is having nearly 20 years of teaching experience to 
engineering students in the subjects like Engg.  Drawing and machine Drawing I got here actual chance to understand students difficulties while handling various 

